Many planning tools and funding
proposals require us to define
the goals and intended results
of our projects.
These are often broken down into
outputs, outcomes, and impacts.
Knowing what each term means and
how they work together can help
you create clear log frames,
choose better indicators, and
support effective monitoring and
evaluation throughout the life
of your project.
Despite being common terms in
our sector, there's often
confusion over what each term
means, including because our
funders sometimes use them
differently.
This said, and in general,
inputs are the resources we need
to implement a project, such as
time, money, and materials.
Activities are the physical
actions that we carry out using
these inputs.
So for example, we design, we
conduct, we monitor.
Outputs are the direct products
of our activities, outcomes are
the shorter term changes that
occur because of our activities
and impact is the longer term
effect of our work and links
back to our ultimate goal.
We appreciate that these
definitions may still sound like
a word salad.
So to clarify, let's look
outside of our sector at some
hopefully more straightforward
examples.
Let's consider road
construction.
The inputs needed are work crew,
heavy machinery and raw
materials such as sand, water
and gravel.
The activities are to level,
prepare and surface roads and to
add signage.
The outputs are the number of
kilometers of new or
rehabilitated roads open to
travel.
The outcomes are better traffic
flow and shorter travel times,
and the impacts are reduced
stress for road users, more free
time for commuters to do other
things, and more efficient
commerce.
For another example, let's
consider cataract surgeries.
The inputs are a trained
surgeon, surgical tools, an
appropriate operating space, and
any medications or other
supplies needed during and after
the operation.
The activity is to perform safe
and effective surgeries.
The outputs are the number of
surgeries performed and the
number of people undergoing the
surgery.
The outcome is improved vision,
and the impact is improved
quality of life for those who
have undergone the surgery.
So what about conservation
projects then?
Common inputs are field
supplies, equipment, vehicle
usage, spaces to hold meetings,
and skilled personnel to
implement a project.
Common activities include to
facilitate community meetings,
conduct research, patrol,
monitor, conduct outreach, and
develop plans.
Common outputs include the
number of people trained,
the number of kilometers patrolled,
the number of snares disarmed,
a plan that you created or a
research report.
Common outcomes or shorter term
changes include increased
capacity, knowledge or
understanding, improved law
enforcement response, a
reduction of threats, improved
well-being of people living next
to a conservation area, and more
representative local governance.
And common impacts include
biodiversity conserved, species
recovery, the maintenance of
ecosystem function and services,
and local people becoming
increasingly supportive of
conservation action.